Advanced 

Writing 



Sample Test 1 

Time 

1 hour 30 minutes 

INSTRUCTIONS TO CANDIDATES 

Do not open this question paper until you are told to do so. 

Write your name, centre number and candidate number on your answer sheet if they are not 
already there. 

Read the instructions for each part of the paper carefully. 

Answer the Part 1 question and one question from Part 2. 

Write your answers on the answer sheet. 

Write clearly in  pen,  not pencil.  You may make alterations,  but make  sure your  work  is easy to 
read. 

You must complete the answer sheet within the time limit. 

At the end of the test, hand in both this question paper and your answer sheet. 

INFORMATION FOR CANDIDATES 

Each question in this paper carries equal marks. 

* 

500/2598/3 

 Copyright © Cambridge University Press & Assessment 2022 

Cambridge English Level 2 Certificate in ESOL International 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 

Part 1 

You must answer this question.  Write  your answer in 220 – 260 words in an appropriate style on 
the separate answer sheet. 

1 

Your class has attended a panel discussion on facilities which should receive money from 
local authorities.  You have made the notes below: 

Which facilities should receive money from local 
authorities? 

•  museums 

•  sports centres 

•  public gardens 

Some opinions expressed in the discussion: 

“Museums aren’t popular with everybody!” 

“Sports centres mean healthier people.” 

“A town needs green spaces – parks are great for 
everybody.” 

Write  an  essay  discussing  two  of  the  facilities  in  your  notes.  You  should  explain  which 
facility it is more important for local authorities to give money to, giving reasons in support 
of your answer. 

You may, if you wish, make use of the opinions expressed in the discussion, but you should 
use your own words as far as possible. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 

Part 2 

Write  an  answer to  one of  the questions  2  –  4  in  this  part. Write  your answer  in  220  –  260  words 
in  an  appropriate  style  on  the  separate  answer  sheet.  Put  the  question  number  in  the  box  at  the 
top of the page. 

2  You have just completed six months in a new job.  In preparation for a progress meeting, you 

have been asked to write a report to your manager. 

Your report should explain what you feel you have achieved in the job so far, describe any 
problems you have had, and suggest any future training that would be suitable. 

Write your report. 

3  You see the following announcement on a website, Great Lives: 

Reviews wanted 

Send us a review of a book or film that focuses on somebody who has made an important 
contribution to society. 

Did you learn anything new about the person’s life from the book or film? Did the book or 
film help you understand why this person made their important contribution? 

Write your review. 

4  You have received a letter from an English friend: 

… 

My new job is great, and next month I get to travel on business. Guess what – I’m actually 
coming to your town for a week! 

I’ll be free some evenings and one weekend.  I want to make the most of this opportunity, 
so I’d like your advice please: where to go, what to do, and why? 

Cheers, 
Chris 

Write your letter in reply.  You do not need to include postal addresses. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
